Career Planning: Secondary School
Most college decision-making takes place between 10th and 12th grades. It's time to narrow down your educational choices and choose a future path. Use this time wisely to explore career opportunities and narrow down your choices.

 Continue to do well in school

Keep up on your school assignments. There is simply no down side to working hard in school and getting good grades. Good grades open the door at many colleges.

Stay on track with schoolwork and plan ahead for deadlines. Spend more time studying the subjects that are the hardest for you. Use Study Organiser with Progress Meter tool to organise your subject study as per difficulty level and get consistent marks in all the subjects. Also you can view your real time preparation in 3 colours Green (doing well), Yellow (lagging behind) and Red (difficult to pass) with expected marks.

How you perform in secondary school lets employers assess what type of employee you'll make. Plus, you will learn skills in school that will last you a lifetime.

A good work ethic in school represents a good work ethic in life.

 Explore some of the more interesting courses that your secondary school offers

Once you identify some career areas that interest you, take a look at your secondary school curriculum to see what classes may help in your career decision-making. Interested in journalism? Try a language class. Interested in medicine? Take biology class.

Taking a class can re-affirm your interest in the field and build on your skills. If you find that the class is not for you, you still have time to change course and explore different career paths. Secondary school provides the perfect time to "sample" what's out there before you need to make a commitment.

Take classes now to help establish a direction for the future.

 Think about what kind of job you would like to have some day

Think about what you would like to do with your life after secondary school. Would you like to work in a busy office, or do you prefer the outdoors? Do you like being around lots of people, or are you more of a loner?

Complete our Aptitude and Work Attitude Assessments to see what careers may best fit your personality and interests. Choosing a career that you like and you are good at will be a big part of your future happiness.

A good career choice "fits" your attitude and interests.

 Gain experience

Get an early start on career exploration by trying out a part-time, volunteer or apprenticeship opportunity. These are great ways to get some "real world" experience in a field that interests you. These types of on-the-job training give you a small taste of what you may face day to day should you pursue full-time work in that field.

Plus, you'll have the opportunity to meet professionals who do what you hope to. Ask questions, find out the challenges they face, and learn from their experience.

 Ask the employed persons what they like and dislike about their job

Talk to some people you know to find out if they are satisfied with their job.

Many factors go into job satisfaction—job location, daily stresses, colleagues. Prioritise the top 10 things you want from your professional life and choose a career that you genuinely like to do, not just something that will make you a lot of money.

The more informed you are, the more prepared you'll be when you start your career.

 Visiting colleges

Visiting colleges while you are in your secondary school, can help you pick the ones you like best.

You will meet a lot of people on a campus visit and have the opportunity to talk to them. Gather as much info as you can about what kind of college experience you can expect, so you are well informed when it's time to make your final decision about where to go.

 Compare colleges

Are there a couple of colleges you are interested in attending? Can't decide which one you like best?

Compare the colleges side by side, including the percentage of applicants accepted at each school, the admissions criteria, the cost, and other details. This simple snapshot gives you a good sense of the bigger picture.

 Find out admissions requirements

Am I on Track? Find out if you meet the college's admissions requirements.

Once you've narrowed down the list of colleges you're interested in, complete an application for each. Make sure you know each college's deadline, and follow the instructions on the application.

Set aside time so you can be thorough, and pay attention to detail. It's important that you complete your college applications accurately.

Consult your Career Education Advisor if you have questions about which test may be a better choice for you.

 Talk to your parents about school and your future plans

According to a recent study, less than 20% of students talk to their parents about their school day. After spending all day in the classroom, you may just be too tired to rehash it all again at home.

But parents have experience that you don't. They can help you look at a situation more clearly and provide support as you problem solve. And if your parents will play a role in your college choice or contribute money toward your education, keeping them involved in your thought process will allow them to prepare emotionally and economically.

Parents are a great supporter for important decisions.
Career Counselling|Career Guidance|Education Advisor in India

Margdarshak is an initiative of Careerlinked Education Council, we provide career guidance to the students, online career counselling, educational planning

"At Margdarshak we began to reinvent career development from the ground up, starting with a few assumptions"

That the career decision-making services available to students at school and college are pathetically ineffective. Perhaps more than 85% of us are in the wrong career. This is an unrecognised national disgrace in a country like India. This includes not only the people who have obviously failed to find a suitable career, but many others who are in a job that only partially fits their talents, abilities, personality, etc.

Careerlinked Education Council A1/43-44, Sewak Park, NSIT Road Dwarka Mor Metro Station

New Delhi – 110059

Mob: +91- 8368566224 
Careerlinked Education Tel: 011 – 6543 55 88 
mail@careerlinked.org
https://careerlinked.org
https://youtu.be/f-ECnRot_es
https://www.facebook.com/careerlinkededucationcouncil/posts/189692248291200


